what's up everyone and welcome to video
number two
as part of this eight part series
on how you can launch a podcast
in this video we're talking about
preparation
what to do before you even get started
with hitting that record button
because sure you could hit record you
could start
with an interview or start talking about
a particular subject matter
but it's always good to go in with a bit
of a strategy
so that you don't get stuck part way
through the process
with that said i don't want you to do so
much time preparing
that you never actually pull the trigger
and launch your podcast
oftentimes we are trying to make things
so perfect before we
actually go ahead and proceed my advice
is you've got to start somewhere you've
got to start recording episodes
your podcast will get better over time
but with that said
if you do a little bit of research even
a couple weeks beforehand and have a
strategy
you can start off at a certain level
that isn't level one
perhaps you learn from a few youtube
videos
or a podcast series like this or other
information
and you are able to start off with a
pretty good product
for myself i have launched two podcasts
in the last couple years so since i
learned about podcasting i've
actually launched two of my own the one
i'm representing on this hoodie
it's called the remax hustle podcast
so i work for remax of western canada
and i thought there would be this great
opportunity
for training for real estate agents to
interview
some of the most successful agents in
western canada
and beyond and find out what they do in
their business
to allow them to be successful or maybe
there's an agent that isn't a high
producer
but they've got something really unique
to talk about when it comes to marketing
i wanted to feature those people so that
other agents could listen
it's interesting content it's not me
who's not a real estate agent telling
them what to do
it's their peers and other people
successful in their field
and they could learn from each other and
it's a good way of promoting
our agents as well so i launched this
podcast
about two years ago and we're at
approximately
70 episodes so far so a little less than
once per week maybe closer to once every
two weeks
but we've gotten some really great
reaction and the platform i use
to host our podcast which is anchor
which i will talk about in the
syndication
video later in this series it gives me
analytics and it tells me who is
listening
how many people are listening and even
where they're from
and we found out recently that there are
listeners from more than 60 different
countries listening to the remax hustle
podcast which is a pretty cool
thing that it's had a bit of a global
reach the other podcast i've started is
one called
show me the crypto and this is
interesting for those of you who are
wanting to do a youtube series
but then just take the audio and create
a podcast
well that is exactly what we have done
with show me the crypto
so the re max hustle podcast is just a
podcast
show me the crypto is a youtube series
where we take the audio and turn it into
a podcast
so whether you're hoping to go in either
one of those strategies
these videos should give you a bit of
information now
on the prep side there are some things
you want to think about first off
what is your logo or your cover art
going to be like
when people search for podcasts on the
podcast app
there's always some sort of art that is
associated with those different podcasts
so you want to make sure that yours
stands out
if you're not a graphic designer like me
perhaps you want to leverage a service
such as fiverr which is a great website
where people
have various gigs or things that they
can do for you on a freelance basis
each with different costs charted out i
used fiverr for a few different
elements of the re max hustle podcast i
didn't for the cover art thankfully we
had
somebody in-house who was able to create
that and did a fantastic job
but i used fiverr for a couple of other
things an
intro it's great to have some sort of
exciting
introduction to your podcast maybe music
or somebody with a deep voice who can
give you that voice over that introduces
your podcast
or something along those lines that
helps capture listeners attention right
away
show me the crypto
show me the crypto show me the crypto
in a world on the brink of disruption
two men will bring you clarity by
interviewing
some of the most intelligent and
influential names in the blockchain
world
welcome to show me the crypto
with your hosts wade patterson
and elf lonergrin well hi there and
welcome to
show me the crypto so once you think
about some of those little details like
your cover
art and whether you're going to have an
intro or an outro or a commercial
maybe you're able to do that yourself or
you have somebody else on a website like
fiverr do that for you
you want to really take a step back and
think about why
why are you launching a podcast what are
you hoping to accomplish
are you going to interview other people
which can have some really great
benefits
in terms of utilizing their audience
when they share that content out via
social media
or are you the expert in your field and
you're going to simply provide
information on a regular basis
also how often is your podcast going to
come out is it going to come out every
single week
once a month are you going to pre-record
episodes and save them
or are you going to have a regular
schedule where you're producing that
content
these are all things to think about
before you actually
jump in and start podcasting i want to
give a shout out to
a podcast that will help you get ready
to podcast
this podcast is from another individual
from kelowna british columbia where i'm
from
and he was on a radio station called am
1150 here in kelowna
his name is tim wahlberg and he created
a great podcast for podcasters
it's called just the tip from your
podcast performance coach i know it's a
little bit of a cheeky
name to it but they are mini episodes on
various questions you might have about
podcasting
such as what type of equipment should
you wear headphones
why is it important to smile when you
podcast
all of these things they're little five
minute episodes and before i launched
into podcasting
i listened i binge listened to many of
these episodes to make sure i had the
information i needed
before i set out and started podcasting
there are also countless youtube videos
and i hope this series is a really good
starting point for you but there are so
many great youtube videos that can help
you through the process
depending if you have a specific
question about a various
element of podcasting some other things
you might want to think about
how are you going to edit audio are you
going to do it yourself
and learn those skills or are you going
to hire that
out because podcasting and creating a
good podcast
it either takes a bit of time and
learning
or money and maybe you're in that
position where your time is too precious
you want to hire that out for somebody
else to do
and simply be the voice or the host
behind the podcast
that's totally fine or perhaps you don't
have a budget
and you know you're going to be the one
who needs to produce this like i was for
the re max hustle podcast
i was the host i edit the audio i still
do i post the episodes
you can do it i knew nothing about this
beforehand
and there is so much content out there
to help you out
but good preparation will help you
know what you are getting into and all
of the things
to think about before you jump in so
like i say
start with the prep but don't over prep
don't let preparation
scare you from doing this because you
can do it and you're going to learn a
lot throughout the way
but don't just jump in the deep end
without doing any sort of research at
all
you want to think a little bit about the
concept of your show
what you're hoping to accomplish and how
you can do that through podcasting
i hope this video on preparation was
helpful for you
again check out the other videos in the
series if you're one of the first to
this video and there
aren't other videos in this eight part
series
hang tight subscribe hit that
notification bell so you know when those
videos exist
otherwise the videos will be in a
playlist for you
thank you so much for checking out this
video
on how to launch a podcast part 2
of my 8 part series